Easy.
Nah, little man, not this one.
It's gonna be hard.
When I get back in town,
you should be finished though.
[kisses]
-You're full of shit, Grant.
-I'll call you.
[door opens, closes]
[panting]
["Only God Knows" playing]
[song stops]
-[panting]
-Push-ups.
I'm too tired. Too tired.
Tired can beat you, or you can beat tired.
You're the number one player
in the area code.
What do you think
the haters want my baby to be?
Tired.
-Really?
-Mm-hmm.
[song resumes]
All right, everybody. Jace Carson.
[pants]
Come on. Push.
Good job, baby. I'm proud of you.
Go, Jace Carson!
["Day Ones" playing]
[whirring]
[phone chimes]
Ma!
No phones at the table, please.
-Ma!
-What?
Overtime just liked my push-up post!
What?
"You have been on our radar.
Are you our next Rising Phenom?"
[gasps] Oh, my God.
They wanna come see you play.
What's the big deal?
If they name me their Rising Phenom?
That's national exposure.
I mean, my social's gonna explode.
Everyone's gonna know my name!
D-1 coaches will know your name.
Ma, I gotta get a new team.
Didn't you just chuck deuces
at your old one?
-Yo, Drew, I gotta go.
-All right, man. Peace.
[chuckles]
Headband?
No. No, no. This is just--
This is my… my friend's.
Oh, no. No, no. This-- this is just--
This is my… [clears throat] …my friend's.
This is your man, Selene,
and you're listening to 93.9,
[radio host] This is your man, Selene,
serving it up for the DC,
Maryland, Virginia area.
That's right.
This next joint goes out
to all the beautiful people in the DMV.
["Shine" playing]
["Quarterthing" playing on radio]
What's up, li'l homey?
-You stayin' focused?
-Always.
Aight.
[hip-hop music playing]
Yo, the guy Overtime featured
two years ago for Rising Phenom
just committed to Kentucky,
and he's only in the tenth grade.
You gotta get a new team.
I know. My mom's on it.
You really think Overtime's
gonna name you Rising Phenom?
Your dumbass crazier than I thought.
Phil, why you always gotta
come with the hate?
Nothin' but love for you, Crystal.
The movement would not have been
a movement without young people
This damn toilet flapper you sold me
don't work.
All damn day my toilet's been running.
You know, I ain't got time
to keep coming down here.
-Excuse me.
-One minute. Let me…
Y'all know how much water bills cost
these days?
-This doesn't seem to be damaged.
-What do you mean by that?
Maybe it was installed incorrectly?
It's my fault? Is that what you're sayin'?
Yes. That's what he's saying.
Now get your drunk ass a plumber
and leave this man alone.
[sighs]
[sighs] What can I help you with?
What can I help you with?
Truth, justice, and the American way,
home-repair Clark Kent.
-What?
-I know your real identity.
Isaac Kennedy Edwards, aka Ike, aka Icon.
State Champion MVP.
Thirty points a game your senior year.
One year in Georgetown,
two years overseas.
I mean, you were small,
but you could lock anybody down.
I mean, you were small, but you could--
you could lock anybody down.
Okay, my name's Isaac,
and I can't talk about basketball
at my job.
I watched your club team play.
They're not great, but they're good.
[woman] I watched your club team play.
You know what you're doin',
and my son needs a coach like you.
That's what this is about? Coaching?
The team I yanked him off of,
they never played up-tempo.
They only wanted my boy pounding the ball
with his back to the hoop.
You know that's right.
Now, he gonna play guard for the pros.
[scoffs] Yeah? Hmm.
Yeah?
Scouting reports
on 14-year-olds are bullshit.
[man chuckles]
Yo, let me see that real quick.
-[young man] Whoa!
-[young man 2] What? What?
What? What?
Aight. I'm warmed up.
[laughing, exclaiming]
Yo, you believe this dude?
-Come on, Mus. Play! Play!
-Ambush, Mus.
-[man] Come on, Mus. Play! Play!
-[Drew] Ambush, Mus.
-Let's go, Mus.
-Yo, right here.
-[man] Let's go, Mus.
-[Drew] Yo, right here.
Yo!
-[spectators] Yo!
-[screams]
[whistle blows]
Lazy defense.
I blocked his shot.
You're standing too tall.
A quicker player will blow right by you.
Move your feet. Run it again.
-That's what I'm talking about, Coach.
-Come on.
-My turn. Check.
-Show me something.
That's how you want me to defend?
'Bout to lock your ass up.
Learn some fundamentals
or get the hell off my court.
Let's go!
What's up? I'm with you.
Gimme something. Gimme something.
Your court?
That's all right. That's all right, baby.
That's good work. It's not important.
Make your take.
Yeah.
The jacket came off.
Right here.
Oh, my God! I'm in! I'm in!
That's what I'm talking about, coach.
Somebody better come get him.
You mad at me? You mad at me.
Come on, baby.
That's an easy lay.
Want that?
-Whose house you in?
-Come on, Jace.
Give me that shit.
-Whose house you in? Let's go.
-Let's go, Coach.
Three!
-Come on!
-Iconic, baby.
Take a picture of me. Take a picture
of me. Take a picture of me.
Get in here. Get in here.
-Yeah. Yeah.
-Come on!
What the hell?
Come on, Jace. Come on, baby.
-That's what I'm talking about!
-Stay with me now.
Let's go. Yeah. Yeah.
Let's go. Man up!
Okay, let's go, baby. Come on.
Do you want this?
Do you want this, Jace? Goddamn!
That's what I'm talking about!
That's what I'm talking about. Yeah.
Yeah.
All right. All right.
-All right.
-Let's go, Ike!
-Shut him down, baby!
-You know this is game point, right?
Stay on him. Don't let him go. Hands out.
-Look, I'm not playing for him.
-The hell you not.
You told me it was just an experiment.
I know you lost, but this is
one of the best games I've seen you play.
Then I must suck,
'cause he didn't make the NBA.
He didn't beat you because he's better.
He beat you because he's smarter.
Look, Ma,
you said if I didn't like him,
I could go somewhere else, right?
-Right.
-I don't like him.
Hey. Pasta's almost ready.
Why is she making dinner?
Don't eat it then.
I won't shed any tears. Trust.
Both of you stop. Jackie's making dinner
because I have a meeting
with my sales folks in half an hour.
Why is that hoodie still there?
Get it picked up.
After dinner, scrape plates,
take out the trash,
and jump into homework.
What about me finding a new team?
Right now, no drama. Can you handle that?
You trying to make our baby an orphan?
An orphan?
You lucky you didn't end up in the ER.
Baby, I'm sore as hell, not old as hell.
-Baby, I'm sore as hell, not old as hell.
-[giggles]
I don't know.
There's a whole lot of mileage
on that body.
Oh, yeah?
-Oh, yeah?
-Mm-hmm.
You could put a little bit more mileage
on this body.
-Just a little bit?
-A lot of bit.
-[woman] Just a little bit?
[giggles]
Thank you.
-Thank you.
-Mm-hmm.
-Look like you need the ice more than me.
-I had three welfare check-ins today.
-Ooh. [chuckles]
-Rough.
Rough.
-Hard saving the world.
-True.
How's your back?
-How's your back?
-Mmm.
Your baby's been good to me today.
-Oh. That's good. That's nice.
-[giggles]
That's good. That's nice.
What do you think about…
Elise Kathryn?
Both our mothers' names.
What did you have in mind?
-What did you have in mind?
-[laughs]
Uh…
And if he comes back,
it'd be a hell of a season for us.
"If"?
Jace got a little bent out of shape
after I…
beat his ass in front of the whole team.
A lot of bent out of shape.
Okay. Okay.
Maybe you should call him.
Or call his mama.
Maybe.
Baby, look.
Right now, you just breaking even.
But a player like that
can attract more players.
Get your program recognition
and become a moneymaker. Right?
Right.
But you still won't call him.
I can't, baby.
Why not?
I don't chase.
So, how did we all do last week?
I picked up two new customers.
-Okay! I'm scared of you.
-That's good.
Mike didn't give me any help
with the baby.
I was too busy and tired.
I'm sorry, Jenna.
That's understandable.
But you gotta remember,
even when you're tired,
you gotta look your best
when you sell cosmetics.
I've been trying for a week
to get my daughter to wear
the mineral powder and the lip gloss.
But she don't want to be like Mommy, so…
Why does Mom always have to
have those meetings?
She recruited those women.
If they generate enough sales,
she gets to buy herself a lavender Lexus.
When I go pro,
I can buy her three of those.
What about me?
I'm gonna send you to cooking school.
Man, whatever.
Jack, look at this.
One of those mazes you used to draw.
[Jackie] One of those mazes
you used to draw.
Our father drew this one.
What?
Ten years ago today.
Then how come you still have it?
I don't know. Just do.
[sighs]
I think I may have found him.
How?
I did another search,
and it looks like he works in Florida.
If I get an address,
maybe we could find a way to see him.
Or talk to him.
Nah. I don't want to talk to him.
I just want him to know how good I am.
[cell phone dings]
[siren wailing]
Emptying the trash
ain't the same as hanging out.
His name is Jace Carson.
He is an eighth-grade honor student
at Seat Pleasant Middle School.
So help me God,
-if you don't take those cuffs off my son…
-Ma'am!
…I will have your badge!
All right, stay right here.
I need to talk to you a second.
I think I know this kid.
He's got videos all over the Internet.
I showed you one, remember?
Fourteen-year-old basketball player.
Slam dunk contest.
Shit. Take the cuffs off him.
[grunts] Stand up.
Stand up.
[sighs]
Baby, it's okay.
[grunts]
You all right?
You okay?
Next time you're outside late,
have some ID on you.
[officer 1] Next time you're outside late,
What, he needs ID to take out the trash?
Are you out your damn mind?
Hey, scrub. What's up with you
not hitting me back last night?
Didn't feel like talking.
Have anything to do
with your ass getting spanked?
What are you talking about?
Damn.
Dropped this morning,
and only 12,008 hits so far.
Now, see, you could have played NBA 2K
with me instead.
You still would have got your ass beat,
but at least the whole world
wouldn't know it.
Cops put cuffs on me last night.
Wait, what?
Yeah.
They thought I jacked a car.
That's crazy. You all right?
Whole time I was thinking…
I don't want to end up in no museum
because of something like that.
I wanna be in there because I'm great.
You got one job, scrub.
Get on a killer team and show out
in front of Overtime this weekend.
And when everyone across the country
watches you ball out,
it'll start the NBA conversation.
Like, for real.
You won't even care about
those cops or the haters.
What about you?
When are you back on the court?
Still can't put pressure on it.
Doctor says a week or two.
Got any more of that vegan brownie crap
you make?
Let me tell ya...
I been at this so long,
some of you played for me back in the day.
That's right.
My youngest daughter's in college now,
and it's still my livelihood.
But some of your business practices
have been sloppy.
And I don't want your greedy asses
messing it up for me.
If the FBI can turn the NCAA upside-down,
imagine what it can do to us.
Are you telling us to not make money?
[man 1] Are you telling us
to not make money?
Coach Max, no disrespect.
You were one of the first coaches
to really get paid in the game.
Whether I was compensated or not
ain't your business, or the damn point.
Coach, I don't think
my man meant that as a slight.
Whoa, Coach, I don't think
-No, not at all.
-Nah, not a--
Come on,
you are a role model to most of us.
-Right? Yeah.
-For sure.
We're role models for these kids.
Keeping 'em off the streets
and helping 'em get into college
is what we do.
Joey, if a sneaker company offers you
a $100,000 donation
because they think your players
positively reflect their brand,
that's not illegal.
Eddie, if you want to write off that
big-ass Escalade as a business expense
big-ass Escalade as a business expense…
[all chuckle]
so you can drive your players around,
that's not illegal.
…so you can drive your players around,
But telling a school program
that you can help them get a player
if they break you off a little somethin'?
That ain't a game
for sloppy-ass individuals.
-So you're the only purist?
-I don't know. Am I?
You're not the only one who played D-1.
But yeah, I got two coaches on my payroll.
I'm about the purity and the cash.
I gotta put my business degree
to good use.
-So what you play? The one or the two?
-Point.
If you ever want to go up
against someone grown,
I'll hurt your feelings.
[chuckles]
You shouldn't let those guys piss you off.
They're just mad you got Jace.
They act like I won the lotto. He's a kid.
Yeah. He's a kid who got Overtime
coming to the game. It's a big stage.
It's a bigger distraction.
Don't act like you don't know
Carson's about to skyrocket your program.
Too bad I'm gonna have to
take you down before liftoff.
[Ike laughs]
That was weak. You just think of that?
See you on the court.
Don't be mad when we win.
-You just jinxed yourself.
-We'll see.
Yo, Earl, where you at?
[Jace] Yo, Earl, where you at?
What are y'all doing here?
On and off the court. Here, we family.
I already got a family.
Jace, you need us as much as we need you.
-[scoffs] Yeah, aight.
-[boy 2] Uh--
Yeah, aight.
No, Jace. Jace. Jace.
I can't let you do that.
-Really?
-No, really.
Sorry, big homey. But till we get this
straightened out,
ain't nobody going nowhere.
[groans]
All right, y'all.
I didn't see that coming.
I didn't see that coming. [mumbles]
-[boy 1] Man, come on.
-[boy 2 groans]
Man, come on.
[sighs]
[lo-fi hip-hop music playing]
Sorry I'm late, Coach.
You late, we all run.
Everybody on the line.
-There you go.
-Everybody on the line.
Wanna see hustle!
Godfather of the DMV. This is a surprise.
With all this Rising Phenom hype,
just thought I'd offer you my congrats.
I'm more interested in Jace's long game
than being the flavor of the month.
Which is exactly why we should talk.
Whether it's bad coaching or the players
around him aren't next level,
if they rack up Ls, Jace will be perceived
as a player who can't get it done.
Or if they get Ws this season,
he'll be perceived as
someone who can carry his team.
If there's a team to carry.
Excuse me?
You have to ask yourself
if a has-been with a crumbling program
can get Jace to the next level.
"Crumbling"?
With all due respect,
how 'bout you stop implying shit
and just say the shit?
He can barely cover his tournament fees
and practice facilities.
By the middle of the season, it'll be
rest in peace, Seat Pleasant Grind.
I know you did your homework,
and I respect that.
But if you'd let me talk to you sooner,
I could've saved you a lot of trouble.
Your son is on a sinking ship.
I'm sorry to be the one to tell you.
Everybody bring it in.
Great work today. Be proud of yourselves.
-SP Grind on three. One, two, three!
-SP Grind!
Good work. Good work today.
You better make sure that you--
Yo, Lou. Can you give me a minute?
Yeah.
You ready, son?
-The question is, you ready, Pops?
-Am I ready?
-Yeah. You ain't ready.
-That's what we doing?
You still ain't paid Vince's dues.
Damn. My bad, brother.
I was juggling a couple things.
You think I can get it to you next week?
-Next week?
-Next week.
-All right.
-All right, man. Good looking.
Yo, Coach, my mom's running late.
Could I put up some free throws?
Bet.
I watched some of your old games online.
Oh, yeah?
Glad you fixed that haircut.
Back then y'all didn't have clippers?
Okay.
No, we didn't.
So what's your excuse for that up top?
Jokes.
Mind if I ask you
about that state championship team?
If you have to.
You were the leading scorer.
But one of your teammates
made it to the NBA, and not you.
That's not a question.
I'm just wondering how come. Your height?
I never used my height as an excuse. Ever.
Then what?
Too much… outside noise.
What does that mean?
If you get good enough, you'll find out.
Well, when I get to the NBA,
I got your back.
I'll pull some strings.
Get you on that coaching staff.
Oh, yeah?
I can take that to the bank?
[chuckles] Oh, yeah?
I can take that to the bank, huh?
You know it.
I'll be the greatest of all time.
-[laughs]
-I'll be the greatest of all time.
Kendrick Lamar of basketball.
Stop!
So, you saying in the history of hip-hop,
Kendrick the GOAT?
"King Kunta."
Yo, Jay-Z been doing it for three decades.
Kendrick been here for 30 seconds,
and he the GOAT?
And raised the bar.
-What you talking about?
-You disrespectful.
-[chuckles] You disrespectful.
We gonna work on that.
I promise you, we gonna work on that.
Coach, if we win the DMV tournament,
are we going to Florida for nationals?
[sighs] We'll be eligible.
We'll be eligible.
Florida tournament costs money.
Jenna, people are always gonna have
something to say, all right?
But y'all shouldn't be stressing
about his exposure.
You should be stressing
about his improvement.
I gotta make sure
I'm making the right moves for my boy.
-I understand that--
-No, you don't!
Jace's father's a piece of shit.
Jace has gotta watch his back
from thugs and police in our neighborhood.
I have to get this right.
Look, we'll see how this weekend goes.
But out of respect,
I just wanted to let you know
there are other teams on the table.
Let's go.
-All right, man.
-All right, Coach.
First you won't let me leave the Grind,
now you're saying I gotta go?
Decisions like this are life-and-death.
-Then I should have a say, shouldn't I?
-Get in the car!
Mom, that wasn't the first time
the cops rolled up on me.
What?
You don't think I know?
When most people look at me,
the first thing they think is,
that's a big n--
That's a big N-word.
I'm gonna be dealing with
that kind of stuff my entire life.
Even when I make it.
It's not just talented people who make it.
It's talented people
who make the right decisions.
Excuse me. Okay. All right.
-Tamika?
-Yes?
My name is Musa Rahaim.
I sit two rows behind you
in math class, to your left.
I mean-- I mean to your right.
Anyway, you're new to our school.
I also hear that you're from the Bay.
You know, Oakland?
What do you want?
I figured you might need
a Seat Pleasant tour guide.
My cousin's been showing me around.
And he has a car.
Okay-- No, it's-- That's cool.
Well, if his car breaks down or anything,
you let me know, all right?
Just…
Musa Rahaim, at your service.
Damn, my game sucks.
What up, Overtime family?
It's your boy, Overtime Larry.
Tomorrow, I'll be heading down
to Seat Pleasant, Maryland
to watch the boys at SP Grind
versus Team All Day.
Let's see if the DMV can give us
that next Rising Phenom.
Big O, better stop playing with me.
Game day is a blessing.
Thank you, Lord, for this opportunity
that you have bestowed upon
your faithful servant, Jace.
Sinning is doing less than
what we are capable of doing.
So we ask you on this day…
that you guide him
and give him the strength and energy
it takes for him not to sin.
We praise you, O Lord,
for this dream
that you have placed in his heart.
A dream that says,
"I'm not just here to take up space.
I'm here to be special
and to serve you to the highest."
We welcome the obstacles.
We know the mountains are not there
so he can retreat.
We know, O Lord,
that the mountains are just a test.
They are a test of determination and will.
And so we say to those mountains,
no matter what form they come,
whether it is a spiritual mountain,
an opposing coach,
or a self-inflicted mountain.
In the name of our Lord and savior,
we say,
"Mountain, be moved."
Yeah. Yo.
Okay.
Hey, we the Grind
How we rock, we gonna take a dub
Hit 'em hard, molly wop
We don't share no love
I dish it out to Drew
He gonna hit the shot
I lob it up to Jace
He gonna dunk the rock
Ay, Team All Day
We 'bout to kill 'em all
We finna stomp on their squad
Cause they all soft
Got the claws out
Yeah, we see the prey
Hit it from far out
And from close range
Yeah, we the Grind
Let's get it, what, what
Hey, we the Grind
Let's kill it, what, what
Go, Jace. Go, Jace.
Go, Coach.
-Go, Coach.
-No. Stop.
-Y'all, no.
Go, Coach. Go, Coach. Go, Coach…
Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey!
-Yo!
-Bring it in!
-How y'all feeling?
-Good.
-Good!
Good. All right.
Hold each other accountable today.
Feel me?
Run the offense. Lock down defense.
Show up not just for yourselves,
but for each other.
Mus, my brother. Take us out!
Come on. Let's go!
Execute on three!
Execute on me! One, two, three!
-Execute!
-Let's go!
Let's go! Let's go!
-Go!
-Go, go, go!
Go, go. Come on.
Watch it.
-Go, go!
-Take it!
Slam dunk.
Let's go.
That's him.
-Let's roll!
-Here we go. Come on.
Nice! There you go, baby. Yeah!
That's right! That's right!
Come on, y'all. Talk to each other!
Good D, good D, good D.
That's my boy! You better play!
-It was--
-Okay, move. Pump it!
Hustle! Hustle! Good job, there, Jace!
-My bad.
-Break this up.
Let's go! Lock it!
That's all you!
Let's go!
Y'all play like y'all got no heart.
Like y'all scared.
-Like a bunch of little bitches!
-Coach.
Show me something, fellas.
Get your shit together
and show me something.
Come on, y'all. We got this. Let's go.
Get his grill! Get his grill!
It's all you, Phil.
Yeah! I see you, scrub.
Move! Move!
Back up. He's got no jump. He's overrated.
Back up! His jump is weak. Overrated.
He's got no jump, so back up.
Let him shoot. Overrated.
Overrated. Overrated! Air ball.
Rebound. Rebound. There we go.
Keep shooting for me, gunslinger.
Fast break! Fast break!
Move! Move! Move!
You watching the same game I'm watching?
Overrated, boy.
Now we playing, baby! Let's go, baby.
Let's go. There we go. Now we playing.
Let's go, Jace.
Time-out! Time-out!
Hey, what's up? Come on.
-You need to tone it down.
-What?
Did you not hear me?
You have to tone it down.
The game is 90% mental.
You want this victory, don't you?
I want you to stop being a jackass more.
Hate me now. Love me when we win.
Open up, fellas. Check this out. You--
Jace. You gotta play your game.
If they can't get in your head,
they can't win.
Period. You feel me?
Don't let 'em do it to you.
And the rest of y'all, this is basketball.
Have some fun with it, baby!
-Finish strong on three.
-Fun.
-SP Grind! Let's go!
-Let's go!
Defense, defense, defense!
Overrated.
You can't let him talk like that
the whole game.
Come on. He's drawing out the whole game.
Rebound!
Come on, Jace! Get us all the way.
Yeah! Yeah!
I thought this kid was special.
Four ticks left in the game, let's go!
Two shots!
Overrated.
Haters are gonna hate.
Come on, Jace. You've got this!
-Overrated.
-Shut the hell up.
Overrated.
Shut the hell up.
Come on. We ain't got all day.
Stand up. Let's go, let's go.
Shake that off.
First step to Florida right here.
Come on.
Yeah. Good job, fellas. Good win, fellas.
Good win, fellas.
Way to show me what you got.
-Don't worry about it, bro.
-It's just a game.
You cry every damn time you lose?
My father would tell me
that I had to learn what it is to lose
before I learn what it is to win.
To me, that sounded like
learning to suffocate
before I learned how to breathe.
Yo, Coach. Please don't give me that
"It's not about whether we win or lose,
it's about how we play the game" bullshit.
All right, well,
I'm gonna tell you the truth.
You was afraid of that moment, Jace.
Overrated.
That's how you feel.
That's what I'm saying.
Everybody get a high-five.
That's how we ball out.
Next game we-- We good. We gonna
figure out what she wants to know.
We gonna figure out
what she wants to be...
Hey, it don't matter.
-Hey, move the ball--
-Can I talk to you for a minute?
I'll be back.
Figure out what y'all wanna eat.
All right.
Good game, man. You really made us
earn that one. I appreciate it.
You know they're just kids, right?
Jace… is a kid.
We don't need to be
tearing young brothers down.
We should be building them up.
Is that why you were
too mentally weak to make it?
Don't make it personal.
Listen, man, if I destroyed
your prima donna, then so be it.
Better find out now than later?
As a matter of fact, now I think about it,
I just did his mama, you,
and his little bitch ass a favor.